---
title: Jan 2019 OpenStack Board Notes
categories:
  - OpenStack
tags:
  - "OSF Board"
---

Chris Dent used to [post regular, semi-subjective,
takes](https://anticdent.org/tag/tc.html) on what was going on in the OpenStack
Technical Committee. Even though I was there for most of the conversations that
were being recapped, I found these very valuable. There were many times that
multiple things were discussed over the course of the week, often overlapping,
and usually competing for metal attention. So having these regular recaps
helped me to remember and keep up on what was going on. I also found the
subjective nature useful over "just the facts" summaries to be able to
understand some perspectives on topics that I sometimes agreed with, sometimes
didn't, and often just hadn't taken into consideration.

That was all while being actively involved in the TC. So I can imagine if there
was someone interested in what was going on, but not able to devote the
significant time it takes to read IRC logs, mailing list posts, and patch
reviews that it takes to really stay on top of everything, these kinds of
things are really the best way for them to be able to get that type of
information.

This is my first attempt to take that kind of communication and apply it to the
OpenStack Foundation Board meetings. The Board of Directors [meet several times
a
year](https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Governance/Foundation#OpenStack_Board_of_Director_Meetings),
usually via conference calls with a few face to face meetings where possible
around Summits and other events. Hopefully these will be useful for anyone
interested in what is happening at the board level. I'm also hoping they help
me be better about taking notes and keeping track of things, so hopefully it's
a win-win.

## January 29, 2019 OpenStack Foundation Board Meeting

The original [agenda can be found
here](https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Governance/Foundation/29Jan2019BoardMeeting)
and the [official minutes will be posted
here](https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Governance/Foundation/29Jan2019BoardMinutes).
Jonathan Bryce also usually sends out unofficial minutes to Foundation mailing
list. The January 29th notes can be [found
here](http://lists.openstack.org/pipermail/foundation/2019-January/002676.html).

### Administrivia

Alan Clark started things off with the typical procedural stuff for meetings
like this. Roll call was taken to make sure there was quorum. Minutes from the
last board meeting in December were voted on and officially approved.

These meetings just recently switched from using WebEx to using Zoom.
Apparently, as a result of that, the normal meeting reminders that folks were
used to were not sent out, so there were a few absent and late. But I think
overall there was a pretty good showing for the 28 board members. I believe
there were only six board members not in attendance, which considering time
zones, seems reasonable.

Alan thanked the outgoing board members for their time on the board. There were
five of us, across Platinum, Gold, and Individual members, that were new to the
board and we all had a few minutes to introduce ourselves and give a little
background before moving on to business.

### Policy Reminders

Especially useful for the new folks like me, there was a reminder about some of
the policies that board members need to follow. I was aware of some, but
definitely not all of these. I think it's useful to include here:

* [Antitrust policy](https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Governance/Foundation/AntitrustPolicy)
* [Code of Conduct](https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Governance/Foundation/CodeOfConduct)
* [Transparency policy](http://www.openstack.org/legal/transparency-policy/)

Reading the Transparency policy was useful, and I especially liked seeing there
is a heading title "General Policy Favoring Transparency".


### Meeting Schedule

Two face to face meetings are planned this year, one before the next Open
Infrastructure Summit in Denvery in April, and another date to be determined
before the following Summit in Shanghai, China in early November.

Speaking of which, up until that point we knew the Summit was planned in China
but no official location was announced. It is now official that the [Open
Infrastructure Summit China](https://www.openstack.org/summit/shanghai-2019)
will be held the week of November 4 in Shanghai.

### Committee Updates

There are various committees within the board to work on different areas. The
[list of
committees](https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Governance/Foundation#Committees_.26_Working_Groups)
can be found on the Foundation wiki.

Most of the discussion was just making everyone aware of these. There are some
listed on the wiki that are just there for historical purposes.

Since financial issues have a lot of impact on the community, especially now
that there are less sponsors than there were a few years ago, I have decided to
join the Compensation Committee. There are a few others that I find interesting
and think are important, but I will wait a little bit before signing up for
more. I know I have a tendency to want to sign up for anything I think I can
help with without really thinking too much about the time commitment, so I am
trying to be better about raising my hand too much.

### OpenStack Foundation Pilot Project Guidelines

Allison Randall have a report on the effort to coming up with a set of written
guidelines for new projects coming in as pilot projects under the OpenStack
Foundation.

As the Foundation expands its scope to include more project beyond OpenStack to
support "open infrastructure", I think it's important that we are careful about
what we include to keep true to our existing community and our core identity.
This group is working on writing a set of guidelines to help ensure that
happens.

The current draft [guidelines can be found
here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1orx3mdE-ALUcIX37VgRZ3Nu8h0yShD0xZGLBT3VepIw/edit#heading=h.v5y7iy63axro).

Some I would like to see a little more specific or reworded to be less
subjective (following "Technical best practices"?) but I am happy to see things
called out like "Open collaboration". I am also a little concerned about how
open governance is left.

To me, the [Four
Opens](https://governance.openstack.org/tc/reference/opens.html) are what
really defined the OpenStack community compared to other open source
environments I had seen. I will have a hard time feeling really comfortable
with adding any new projects that do not at least strive towards following the
four opens.

### Foundation Update

Jonathan and team wrapped thing up with a staff update. The [slides can be
found
here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1jAIfaLRZnOy0IiWK32qYFwhUp0-x_iRVDt2SV3x0pxY/edit#slide=id.g45a601d911_0_0).

It was great to see that there has actually been a 33% increase in community
membership over the last year. But seeing the activity in the projects, this
tells me that more and more involvement is casual or part-time. We have been
working on making things more welcoming to new contributors and talking about
ways to make contributing easier for those that aren't spending a significant
part of their work week on OpenStack and related projects. I think these
efforts are very important and will be critical to our ability to getting more
done going forward.

Following on from Allison's update, there was a large part about the expanding
role of the Foundation and the projects currently in the Pilot phase. Right
now, these are Airship, Kata Containers, StarlingX, and Zuul.

There was some good coverage about where the Foundation can play a role in an
expanded role of promoting open infrastructure. The main goals for this year
were reported as strengtheing OpenStack (branch and community), helping expand
market opportunities for open infrastructure, and evolving the business model
of the Foundation to be this broader-scoped entity.

I'll probably have more to say on some of those soon, but overall I think it
was a good update and, all things considered, I think we are on the right track
and at least paying attention to the things we need to going forward.
