---
title: Gofish - A golang client library for Redfish and Swordfish
categories:
  - Swordfish
tags:
  - SNIA
  - Swordfish
  - OpenSDS
---

One of the things I have been looking in to for the OpenSDS project is adding
support for the Swordfish API standard. I believe by OpenSDS providing a
standardized API it could both make it attractive for storage vendors to
natively integrate with OpenSDS - with one integration they would pick up
support for CSI, Cinder, Swordfish, and other integration points - as well as
make OpenSDS an interesting option for those needing to manage a heterogenous
mix of storage devices in their data center in a common, single pane of glass,
way.

We are still looking at how this could be integrated and how much focus it
should have. But it became clear to me that we would need a good way to
exercise this API if/when it is in place.

We are also considering southbound integration in OpenSDS to be able to manage
Swordfish-enabled storage. This would enable OpenSDS support for storage
without needing to write any custom code if they have already made the
investment in exposing a Swordfish API. If we were to do that, we would need a
client library that would allow us to easily interact with these devices.

So between the two approaches being considered, along with wanting to get a
little more time and experience with golang, I decided to start implementation
on an open library for Redfish and Swordfish. I've just pushed up a very
rudementary start with the [Gofish
library](https://github.com/stmcginnis/gofish).

### What is Swordfish

The DMTF released the first Redfish standard in 2015. The goal of Redfish was
to replace IPMI and other proprietary APIs for managing data center devices
with a simple, standard, RESTful API that would provide consistency and ease of
use across physical, hybrid, and virtual IT devices.

For years, the Storage Network Industry Association (SNIA) had been working on
[SMI-S as a standard storage management
protocol](https://www.snia.org/forums/smi/tech_programs/smis_home). There was
industry adoption, but there was still a general sense that SMI-S was too big
and too complex for both implementors and consumers of the API.

SNIA recognized the simplicity and ease of use of the Redfish specification and
chose to extend the DMTF spec with storage related objects and capabilities.
These additions can be seen (at a high level) with the purple objects in this
model from a presentation by Richelle Ahlvers, the chair of the Scalable
Storage Management Technical Working Group (SSM TWG):

![Object model](/assets/images/swordfish.png)

### Introducing Gofish

To start, I just used the API responses from the [Swordfish API
emulator](https://github.com/SNIA/Swordfish-API-Emulator) as a reference to get
a very basic client library working which I have called
[Gofish](https://github.com/stmcginnis/gofish). Cause I'm just so clever and
witty like that.

This is very, very rudimentary at this point. There is no authentication
mechanism yet, something that any real Redfish or Swordfish provider will
surely require. The object model is also very limited and incomplete. Luckily
all of the [Redfish](http://redfish.dmtf.org/schemas/v1/) and
[Swordfish](http://redfish.dmtf.org/schemas/swordfish/v1/) schemas are
published in easy to consume yaml or json formats that should make it easy to
script up the generation of the rest of the schema.

Even in its basic state, I did want to get this out there in case anyone else
is interested. I've published this under the Apache 2 license in a public
GitHub repo, so anyone that is interested in contributing, feel free to propose
pull requests and try out the code.

I am hoping to work on this as time permits to get it more full featured and
robust. I am limited by my access to Redfish and Sworfish enabled devices, so I
may be constrained until I can track down something more than the emulator to
use for testing. But hopefully this project evolves into something useful as
more devices implement this support and more management tools are developed to
take advantage of it.
