---
title: Running for the OpenStack Board of Directors (Take 2)
categories:
  - OpenStack
tags:
  - BoD
---

Just a year ago I had put in my name for the OpenStack Board of Directors
Individual Director election. The board is divided into 8 appointed directors
from Platinum member companies, 8 directors elected from within the Gold member
companies, and 8 individual directors from the community.

I think last year's election was close, or at least I fared better than I had
feared I would, so I am giving it another shot this year.

I was really on the fence about it in the months leading up to the nomination
period. This post is a chance for me to jot down some of my thoughts that led
me to decide it was the right thing to do.

### The Role of Individual Members

The individual directors are members of the Foundation and are there to
represent the members of the Foundation. Foundation membership is open to all,
so I see this role as being a voice of the community within the Board
governance - something that I personally find really valuable and necessary for
something like a non-profit, open source community Board of Directors.

As part of my involvement in the OpenStack Technical Committee over the last
couple of years, one of the things I have tried to encourage is more frequent
and open communication between the Board and the TC. Only through good
communication between these governance groups can we really be most effective
and learn from each other to best support the goals of the Foundation and the
needs of the community that has grown around OpenStack, open infrastructure,
and those that care about the health and availability of open options.

I feel the need to preface the next part with saying there are some really
great folks on the Board of Directors now that I truly believe are doing what
they think is best to support the Foundation's mission. These folks are taking
time out of their busy schedules to be a part of this and give their knowledge
and expertise to help guide the Foundation. Nothing I say here should be taken
as a criticism for any of the decisions that have been made or as being
directed by anyone that is now or has been a part of making OpenStack what it
is today.

Now in that context, here's where I see the need for folks like me to get
involved.

For some board directors, the entirety of their participation in the OpenStack
community is calling in to board meetings once a quarter. Some I'm sure are
actively involved in their company's interaction with their customers and the
real world issues of trying to take the output of all of this activity and
making it into something that can be packaged and supported and used to address
their customer's needs. Which is **HUGELY important**.

But to really understand how to shape things and make things better, I think
it's also very important to understand the development community and the
challenges, needs, and pressures happening there to make the right long term
direction choices.

That's the role the individual directors fill, and these eight people need to
be able to bridge that gap between knowing the right things for the companies
involved, the operators trying to run the software, and the users that
ultimately are trying to do something bigger and more important than whatever
is used to enable their infrastructure to support their activities.

### My Goals

Unlike company Board of Directors, open source foundation board effectiveness
is limited to their influence within their own companies and making the case to
others individuals and companies involved. Some of this is through financial
direction of the foundation, and some of it is by being able to bring in their
expertise and convince others whether certain things are the right thing to
focus on for the long term success of the community.

Over the last several years I have worked in various areas of the community.
I've been a PTL of a major component of most OpenStack clouds. I'm a core
member of a few projects I feel are important to the overal success and health
of the community. I've participated on the Technical Committee since spring
of 2017. I've also spent time pushing a broom and taking care of some areas
that no one notices until they start to smell.

I think whoever gets elected, they need to have that experience and be involved
in the development of the code to be able to provide input on what is happening
and how the board decisions could impact them.

I've also been a big supporter of the Ops Meetups, being involved in helping
organize those events and participating by presenting, moderating, or helping
to organize to be a productive forum for operators to share best practice and
war stories and build this also important part of the community that we need to
be a thriving group. As someone that has moved from more operations to more
development, I have learned a tremendous amount from these folks and am in awe
at the things they've been able to do and their dedication to OpenStack and
willingness to share and learn and grow from each other.

I've also had the opportunity lately to get out and speak to customers. Some
have been great OpenStack supporters. But perhaps the more important ones for
me has been speaking to the ones that are not. It's always hard to hear why
something you've worked on for years isn't good enough, or easy enough, or
featureful enough to meet someone's needs. But it's also tremendously important
to hear those things.

So my plan for being on the board is to be able to take my experiences as a
developer within the community, a supporter of operators and users, and someone
willing to process the criticisms of the software and feed those into the
efforts and decisions made by the Board. Regardless of who is elected, these
are all critical things that need a voice in those discussions.

### Board Election Candidates

Like last time, the good news is there are a lot of [really good
candidates](https://www.openstack.org/election/2019-individual-director-election/CandidateList)
who have been willing to step up to this role.

Some definitely have more time spent in the community. Some likely have more
experience operating an OpenStack cloud or running open infrastructure. Many
probably have resumes that would put mine to shame. But I do hope I get the
opportunity to be one of the eight individual directors. I do think I have a
unique and important enough experience to provide an important voice within the
OpenStack Foundation Board of Directors.

Please watch for ballots sent out when the election opens up January 14th. Read
the candidate profiles and vote for whichever ones you think will be the right
individual voices on the Board. The important thing is to participate and
provide your vote to make sure we have a strong and health Board.
