---
title: March 2019 OpenStack Board Notes
categories:
  - OpenStack
tags:
  - "OSF Board"
---

This is the second report in a hopefully [ongoing series of
notes](http://www.ivehearditbothways.com/tags/#osf-board) capturing OpenStack
Foundation Board Meeting activities.

As a reminder (or in case you weren't aware) the planned OSF board meetings are
[published on the
wiki](https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Governance/Foundation#OpenStack_Board_of_Director_Meetings)
and are open to everyone. Occasionally there is a need to have a private, board
member only portion of the call to go over any legal affairs that can't be
discussed publicly, but that should be a rare occasion.

I would encourage anyone interested to listen in. Or join us at the next
face-to-face "joint leadership" meeting with the Technical Committee and User
Committee on April 28, the Sunday prior to the next Open Infrastructure Summit
in Denver, Co.

## March 5, 2019 OpenStack Foundation Board Meeting

The original [agenda can be found
here](https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Governance/Foundation/5March2019BoardMeeting)
and the [official minutes are
here](https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Governance/Foundation/5March2019BoardMinutes).
Jonathan Bryce also usually sends out unofficial minutes to Foundation mailing
list. The [March 5th notes can be found
here](http://lists.openstack.org/pipermail/foundation/2019-March/002719.html).

### Board Member Changes

The Platinum and Gold board member positions are tied to the sponsor
organizations, with the Platinum members being appointed and the Gold members
being selected as part of an election amongst that group.

Due to shifting job responsibilities, career moves, etc., representatives from
this group do change from time to time. Brian Stein (Rackspace) and Mark Baker
(Canonical) have left the board, replaced by Andy Cathrow and Ryan Beisner,
respectively.

### Confirmation Guidelines

Allison Randall has been leading the effort of formalizing confirmation
guidelines for new projects coming in under OpenStack Foundation governance.
The [draft of these
guidelines](https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Governance/Foundation/OSFProjectConfirmationGuidelines)
have been available for some time, so this was more of a final review to see if
there were any further details that needed to be worked through.

Personally, I find section 3 ("Technical best practices") to be a little vague
in practice, but not enough to raise it as an issue in the meeting. These are
guidelines afterall, not a legal rubric.

I am very happy with the detail in section 4 ("Open collaboration"). The items
listed under here were the main points of concern I had with how new projects
will be handled. I believe things like following the [Four
Opens](https://governance.openstack.org/tc/reference/opens.html) and adhering
to the community code of conduct are very important to make sure there is some
sort of cohesion between the different groups that will make up the greater
community. I'm also happy to see having an OSI license explicitly called out.

The main conversation around this topic ended up being the need (or not) to
have non-public discussions about incoming projects. There were some strong
opinions as to whether it was even appropriate for an open source organization
such as ours should even have private board meetings to discuss these things
and whether that would cause the appearance of making decisions on new projects
behind closed doors.

Mark Radcliffe's main point was there could be times where legal reasons would
cause the need. The good example I saw was if a director worked for a company
that somehow had a legal restriction that would prevent them from making public
comments about a project being led by a competing organization.

Then further down the route of needing private board meetings, would it be
better to have them for every project so it's not as obvious that there are
some concerns when they actually are needed for a new project.

I think it was Mark McLoughlin that raised the point that we do reserve the
option to have an exclusive portion of our regular board meetings, so we could
be discrete by letting Alan Clark know that we would like to use that time at
the next board meeting to have a private discussion without making it too
obvious that there are concerns about a project.

I could see some of the legal arguments for maybe needing this, but ultimately
I think we need to stay open in these discussions. By being part of the board,
we are taking on the obligation of publicly discussing matters of the OSF. If
someone has a legal reason to not discuss something in the open, then I think
it's probably better they either recuse themselves from the discussion or have
a direct conversation with the team or Alan to raise their concerns.

We are pushing for the Four Opens for the community. I believe the Board needs
to operate as openly as possible too.

We will be planning another meeting in April to give everyone time to think
through some of the concerns and then hopefully agree on how this will be
handled going forward.

The good thing is that the confirmation guidelines themselves were approved and
we now have something in place as we evaluate new OSF projects.

### Compensation Committee Update

Alan presented the current draft of the compensation committee's work on
setting goals for the OpenStack Foundation staff for 2019. I am not able to
find a public reference to that at the moment, but I will see about posting a
future update.

Basically, this sets the goals for Jonathon Bryce for directing Foundation
staff activities for the year. It includes things like the new project
confirmations, promotion of OpenStack activities, and other efforts for the
staff to work towards.

### India Events

Prakash Ramachandran raised this topic to get some awareness of efforts he is
leading to promote OpenStack and Open Infra events in India, and the desire to
at least have a discussion about a potential future Open Infrastructure Summit
in India in the future.

Unfortunately we ran out of time. I would have liked to have had more
discussion on this topic. We have a very large contributor base in India and
many Indian companies using OpenStack. I think it would be great to help
connect with this community by having a Summit there and I was glad to hear
about some of the smaller events Prakash and team have been organizing in
different regions.

(side note: I had a great experience [going to an OpenStack Days
event](http://www.ivehearditbothways.com/openstack/openstack-day-india-2016/)
in Bangalore a few years ago.)

Hopefully we will hear more on this in the future.

